Summary
--------------

After code review and TTW testing, this PLIP implementation appears to
be essentially incomplete.  It provides a skeleton content type and
some templates with extensive inline jQuery and CSS.  There are no
tests in plone.app.collection and the tests in plone.app.search are
only benchmarks for the new search implementation.  There does not
appear to be a mechanism for extending the available "criteria" or for
managing available search and sort fields except with patching.
Apparently a plone.app.registry based implementation for the latter is
under consideration, but this is essential functionality which is
currently missing.

It's fairly easy to produce errors during TTW testing (e.g. the
default 'Relevence' [sic] sort index doesn't actually exist and
results in an AttributeError, removing criteria appears to work only
occasionally, ...).  There also seems to have been no effort made to
make the package i18n aware.  This package appears to be a good
starting point for developing a user interface for Collection-like
functionality built around plone.app.search.  Unfortunately, it does
not appear to be close to being ready for consideration for inclusion
in Plone.

Similar criticisms apply to the UI for the new Collections type (PLIP
9295).  It appears to be little more than a proof of concept.  The
number of clicks required to add a new criteria is confusing.  The
criteria widgets are all defined in javascript and mostly consist of
simple text inputs.  The multiple selection widget uses a hardcoded
set of options, further indicating that this is a tech-demo rather
than a useful implementation.

Generally speaking, it's not clear that the current user interface
offers much real improvement over what we currently have with ATTopic
other than a slightly less confusing means of saving criteria changes
and the addition of live results update on the criteria edit page.  In
time, this UI could grow into quite an improvement, but right now it
offers only an incremental improvement which is subverted by the fact
that the implementation appears to be quite incomplete (e.g. missing
widgets, too many clicks needed).

Recommendation
--------------------

I am strongly -1 on inclusion of these PLIPs for Plone 4.0.  The
timeline for this release is short and only packages which are
essentially ready for a public beta (or at least alpha) release should
be considered.  However, if this continues to develop as an add-on
package, it should be stongly considered for inclusion in 4.1.  The
PLIPs do not result in any API changes and simply provide a new
default content type, so it should be a safe choice for that release
once it is fully functional.
