PLIP 10902: New collections
===========================

PLIP ticket: http://dev.plone.org/plone/ticket/10902

Review by the Plone UI team (ui AT lists.plone.org)


Preparations and basic obesrvations.
------------------------------------
Created a new Plone site with plone.app.collection profile.
    - Shouldn't the profile be part of Plone installation by default?

Added some dummy content that should be later used in the test collection.
    - There are 2 'Collection' items in the 'Add New…' menu. One for the new
      collections, another one for the old ones. Should be only one.
      
Added the new object of the *new* Collection type. Reviewing the 'Search
terms', 'Sort on' and 'Preview' fields as those that are new to the collection
type.


'Search terms' field.
---------------------

    - Can we rename it to something more meaningful like 'Search for' or
      something like that? 'Search terms' might sound like an alien meta-field
      for statistically normal editors.
    - The description of the field is quite long and confusing. "Choose what
      you want to search for" should be more than enough here in our opinion.
    - Why do we separate different fields in the 'Text' section of the
      <select>? Usually editors should have no idea about the fields we have
      in Plone and they should not care. Just one, generic text field that
      internally searches in all the fields mentioned at the moment, should be
      enough. The UI team proposes the following:
        - 'Description', 'Title' and 'Searchable text' options should be
          replaced by one simple 'Searchable text' that, under-the-hood will
          search in all searchable text.
        - 'Tags' option doesn't belong to the text block at all and should be
          branched out to it's own entry.
      UI team has no suggestion on how to present these 2 blocks (Text and
      `Tags) yet. Both of them will now contain only one entry and it might
      make no sense to let them have any block's header as we have 'Dates' or
      'Metadata' headers. The team will make a proposal shortly.
    - Do we really need all of those dates in the <select>? Updated search
      results page ('Filter the results' menu) provides the idea of how users
      possibly want to interact with the dates and the dates that do really
      matter for the end users.
    - Probably, if we would use a graphical element instead of textual 'Remove
      line' the action would be clearer in this case.
    - It's better to position 'Remove line' action on the left of the line.
      Usually, users decide to remove a line in case they chose the wrong
      parameter. In this case it's better to have remove line close to the
      'add line' action to reduce the required mouse movements.
    - When one adds a new search parameter, default 'Select' dropdown, should
      stay above the newly added rows in order to keep the semantical relation
      ot the field's title. Moreover it's confusing to have the same
      actionable element moving down on the page after every action.
    - After adding a parameter for the 'Search terms', information 'n items
      matching your search terms' appears to be:
        1. Not related to the current line at all — it's too far from the
        added parameter.
        2. Information in this line is quite confusing at first. Does it show
        the information for this line as if it would be a standalone (since
        each line has it's own information of this kind) or it shows the info
        based on all previous lines? Yes, it becomes more clear when you
        analyze the information and see how the lines are changed after you
        add more parameters, but it's very not clear before you get used to
        it. We suppose that information on each line doesn't add any useful
        information with this confusion. We would suggest to have one 'n items
        matching your search terms' information for all lines as a total below
        the parameters.


'Sort on' field.
----------------

    - The parameters in the dropdown don't make sense to me. Yes, that's what
      we used to have in Plone, but why not to improve it? Those parameters
      make no sense to the end users because they have no clue what do those
      mean internally (ask anybody who has not been working with Plone what
      does 'Short name' or 'Effective date' mean. Or how should the sorting on
      'Tag' be done?). We would propose to use the same sorting options as the
      new search results page has - relevance, date (newest first),
      alphabetically. Might even drop the 'relevance' option.


'Preview'.
----------

    - If the search gives less than 10 items, the description for the field
      still says 'Preview of at most 10 items.' even though the very closely
      located line within the field says something like '8 items matching your
      search terms.'. This is very confusing. One of these (probably the
      descriptions) should be dropped.
    - Would be great to replace the text in the preview itself from simple '22
      items matching your search terms' to something like 'Shown 10 out of 22
      items matching your search terms.' in case the search returns more than
      10 items.

Bugs found during the review.
-----------------------------

- In the 'Searhcable Text' note that 'Text' block is the first on in the
  select. Choose 'Tags' in this block. The new criteria row is added. Click
  the same select (that now says 'Tags') again and note how the 'Text' block
  becomes the second now, after the 'Dates'.

- There is a bug in the preview. Select 'Description' in the 'Search terms'
  field and leave it empty. You will get some results. in the preview field.
  In our case it gave me 11 results in total for this parameter. Then, click
  'Remove line'. The preview results stay the same and are not reverted to the
  initial state with 0 results.
  
- The style of the new widgets used in the fields (tags selector, preview
  field) looks like it has been merged from another site and are not part of
  the current Plone site. They have black border and feel weird. Is there any
  way to make them look generic enough to pick up the styling of the visual
  theme around? So that the 'Preview' field's border would look like the
  textarea's border and the tags selector would look like a system's <select
  />.  