Summary
--------

This PLIP appears to be completely implemented with a reasonable set
of functional tests for the new functionality.  Through the web
testing confirms that the new functionality behaves as expected and is
both reasonable and intuitive.  Behavior for ATFile content remains
unchanged.

There's a small unexpected (to me) benefit: if you upload an image
with the same name as an existing image, you get an error about the
name conflict, with the filename placed in the title field.  At this
point if you really do want to upload an image with the same name, you
can simply change the title manually to get a new id for the uploaded
image.

Issues and Concerns
----------------

It is currently impossible to test FTP functionality because simply
connecting to the Zope FTP port under Zope 2.12 + python2.6 raises an
error.  WebDAV appears to work correctly (i.e. the behavior is
unchanged) when tested using CyberDuck.  Nothing in the changesets
indicates that this PLIP's implementation would trigger any unexpected
behavior or errors when working with FTP.

One concern is that the implementation of the new
_should_set_id_to_filename method in the ATCTFileContent base class.
In the base class it simply raises a NotImplementedError, assuming
that subclasses like ATFile and ATImage will implement the method
properly.  This effectively makes this new private method a part of
the public API for the base class, since any subclasses will need to
implement the method in order to function at all.  This will break any
existing sub-classes for no good reason (whether any direct
sub-classes of ATFileContent exist in the wild outside of
Products.ATContentTypes is not clear).

My feeling is that either the base class should provide a default
implementation of this method (the one from ATFile should suffice), or
the new functionality should be moved directly into ATImage.  This
would avoid breaking any hypothetical content types which inherit
directly from ATFileContent.  I recommend the former, since that
would appear to require the least effort.

Other than that this PLIP appears to be ready for inclusion in Plone 4.0.
